---
layout: post
title: "SmbShare"
date: 2024-05-15
categories: [CHEATSHEET]
---

`impacket` is a collection of Python classes for working with network protocols, and it's a popular toolset among penetration testers and security professionals for tasks such as creating and sending packets, transferring files, and executing commands remotely.

  
First, ensure that `impacket` is installed:

```shell
sudo apt-get install impacket-scripts python3-impacket
```


## Setting Up an SMB Server

One of the common tools in `impacket` is `smbserver.py`, which allows you to quickly set up an SMB server that can be used to share files or execute commands. Here’s how to set it up:

### Create a Share Directory:

  
> ***Note:***
>
> In some scenarios, it might be necessary to decrease the permissions of an SMB share directory.
> This can be achieved using the `chmod` command in a Linux or Unix-like operating system.


```shell
mkdir /tmp/smbshare
```


### Start the SMB Server: 

Use `smbserver.py` to share the directory. This command will start an SMB server with the share name `SHARENAME` and the shared directory `/tmp/smbshare`.

```shell
sudo smbserver.py SHARENAME /tmp/smbshare
```

  
Optionally, you can add `-smb2support` to enable SMB2 support:

  
```shell
sudo smbserver.py -smb2support SHARENAME /tmp/smbshare
```

  
On Kali Linux, the command below should work immediately, saving you from the above steps.

```shell
sudo impacket-smbserver SHARENAME -smb2support /tmp/smbshare
```


> ***Note:***
>
> In instances where authentication is required, utilize the `-user` and `-password` attributes



### Accessing the Share

From a Windows machine or another Linux system, you can now access the SMB share using the server’s IP address and the share name. For example, from a Windows Run dialog (`Win + R`), you can type:

  
```shell
\\<IP_OF_KALI_MACHINE>\SHARENAME
```

  
Replace `<IP_OF_KALI_MACHINE>` with the actual IP address of your Kali Linux machine.

### Using Other Impacket Tools

Impacket comes with a variety of other scripts and tools for different purposes, such as `psexec.py` for executing processes remotely, `getTGT.py` for Kerberos ticket operations, etc.

This example demonstrates running a command on a remote system using the `psexec.py` tool from Impacket:

  
```shell
psexec.py domain/username:password@<TARGET_IP> cmd.exe
```

  
This command will open a `cmd.exe` shell on the target machine if the credentials and network settings permit.
